CHAPTER XXXII.
And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. And when Jacob saw them,
he said, This is God's host, and he called the name of that place Mayoneum. And Jacob
sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.
And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau. Thy servant Jacob
saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now. And I have oxen and
asses, flocks, and men's servants, and women's servants. And I have sent to tell my lord
that I may find grace in thy sight. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came
to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee and four hundred men with him. Then
the people that was with him, and the flocks and herds, and the camels, into two bands.
And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which
is left shall escape. And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father
Isaac, the Lord which said unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and
with thee. I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies and of all the truth which
thou hast shewed unto thy servant, for with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now
I am become two bands. Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the
hand of Esau, for I fear him lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the
children. And thou saidest, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand
of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. And he lodged there that same night, and took
of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother. Two hundred she-goats, and
twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, thirty milk-camels with their colts,
forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she-asses, and ten foals. And he delivered them into
the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves, and said unto his servants, Pass over before
me, and put a space betwixt drove and grove. And he commanded the foremost, saying, When
Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whos art thou, and whither goest thou,
and whos are these before thee? Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's, it
is a present sent unto my lord Esau, and behold also he is behind us. And so commanded he
the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye
speak unto Esau when ye find him. And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is
behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and
afterward I will see his face. Peradventure he will accept of me. So went the present
over before him, and himself lodged that night in the company. And he rose up that night,
and took his two wives, and his two women's servants, and his eleven sons, and passed
over the ford Jabbok. And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that
he had. And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking
of the day. And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of
his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint as he wrestled with him.
And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except
me. And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Thy name
shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel, for as a prince hast thou power with God and
with men, and hast prevailed. And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.
And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there.
And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, for I have seen God face to face, and my life
is preserved. And as he passed over Penuel, the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon
his thigh. Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is
upon the hollow of the thigh unto this day, because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh
in the sinew that shrank.
CHAPTER XXXIII
And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold Esau came, and with him four hundred
men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.
Then he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after,
and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the
ground seven times, until he came near to his brother. And Esau ran to meet him, and
embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him, and they wept. And he lifted up his eyes,
and saw the women and the children, and said, Who are those with thee? and he said, The
children which God hath graciously given that I servant. Then the handmaids came near, they
and their children, and they bowed themselves. And Leah also with her children came near,
and bowed themselves, and after came Joseph near, and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.
And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? and he said, These are
find grace in the sight of my Lord. And Esau said, I have enough, my brother, keep that
thou hast unto thyself. And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in
thy sight, then receive my present at my hand, for therefore I have seen thy face as though
I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me. Take, I pray thee, my blessing
that is brought to thee, because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have
enough. And he urged him, and he took it. And he said, Let us take our journey, and
let us go, and I will go before thee. And he said unto him, My Lord knoweth that the
children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me, and if men should
overdrive them one day, all the flock will die. Let my Lord, I pray thee, pass over before
his servant, and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me, and the
children be able to endure, until I come unto my Lord, unto Seir. And Esau said, Let me
now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it,
let me find grace in the sight of my Lord. So Esau returned that day on his way unto
Seir. And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him in house, and made boots for his
cattle. Therefore the name of the place is called Succoth. And Jacob came to Shalem,
a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Payton Aram, and
pitched his tent before the city. And he bought a parcel of a field where he had spread his
tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred pieces of
money. And he erected there an altar, and called it El Elohi Israel.
CHAPTER XXXIV And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, which she
bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. And when Shechem, the son of
Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled
her. And his soul clave unto Dinah, the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake
kindly unto the damsel. And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this
damsel to wife. And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah, his daughter, that his sons
were with his cattle in the field, and Jacob held his peace until they were come. And Hamor,
the father of Shechem, went out unto Jacob to commune with him. And the sons of Jacob
came out of the field when they heard it, and the men were grieved, and they were very
wroth because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter, which thing
ought not to be done. And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth
for your daughter. I pray you give her him to wife. And make ye marriages with us, and
give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you. And ye shall dwell with
us, and the land shall be before you. Dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions
therein. And Shechem said unto her father, and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in
your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me, I will give. Ask me never so much dowry and
gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me. But give me the damsel to wife.
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, Because
he had defiled Dinah their sister. And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing to
give our sister to one that is uncircumcised, for that were a reproach unto us. But in this
will we consent unto you, if ye will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised.
Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and
we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. But if ye will not hearken unto
us to be circumcised, then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone. And their words
pleased Hamor and Shechem Hamor's son. And the young man deferred not to do the thing,
because he had delight in Jacob's daughter, and he was more honorable than all the house
of his father. And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed
with the men of their city, saying, These men are peaceable with us, therefore let them
dwell in the land and trade therein. For the land, behold, it is large enough for them.
Let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters. Only herein
will the men consent unto us, for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among
us be circumcised as they are circumcised. Shall not their cattle and their substance
and every beast of theirs be ours? Only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell
with us. And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate
of his city, and every male was circumcised all that went out of the gate of his city.
And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob,
Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly,
and slew all the males. And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword,
and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out. The sons of Jacob came upon the
slain and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister. They took their sheep,
and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was
in the field, and all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they
captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.
And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi,
E have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites
and the Perizzites, and I, being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against
me and slay me, and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.
And they said,
Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
CHAPTER 35
And God said unto Jacob,
Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there, and make there an altar unto God, that appeared
unto thee when thou fledtest from the face of Esau thy brother.
Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him,
Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments. And
go up to Bethel, and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day
of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.
And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings
which were in their ears, and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
And they journeyed, and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about
them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the
people that were with him. And he built there an altar, and called the place El-Bethel,
because there God appeared unto him when he fled from the face of his brother.
But Deborah, Rebecca's nurse, died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak, and
the name of it was called El-Anbaikoth.
And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Paedon Aram, and blessed him.
And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob, thy name shall not be called any more Jacob,
but Israel shall be thy name. And he called his name Israel.
And God said unto him, I am God Almighty, be fruitful and multiply, a nation and a company
of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins. And the land which
I give Abraham and Isaac to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give
the land.
And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone,
and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon. And Jacob called the
name of the place where God spake with him Bethel.
And they journeyed from Bethel, and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath, and
Rachel travailed, and she had hard labor. And it came to pass, when she was in hard
labor, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not, thou shalt have this son also. And it
came to pass, as her soul was in departing, for she died, that she called his name Ben-Onai,
but his father called him Benjamin. And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath,
which is Bethlehem. And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave, that is the pillar of Rachel's
grave unto this day.
And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar. And it came to pass,
when Israel dwelt in that land that Reuben went, and lay with Bilha his father's concubine,
and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve. The sons of Leah, Reuben, Jacob's
first born, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun. The sons of Rachel,
Joseph, and Benjamin. And the sons of Bilha, Rachel's handmaid, Dan, and Naphtali. And
the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid, Gad, and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob, which
were born to him, and paid in Aram. And Jacob came unto Isaac his father, unto Mamre, unto
the city of Arba, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned. And the days of Isaac
were a hundred and four score years. And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered
unto his people, being old and full of days. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
CHAPTER XXXVI Now these are the generations of Esau, who
is Edom. Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan, Adah the daughter of Elan the Hittite,
and Ahol Abbaamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibion the Hivite, and Bashamath
Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebejath. And Adah bare to Esau a life-faz, and Bashamath
bare rule. And Ahol Abbaamah, Berjish, and Jalim, and Korah, these were the sons of Esau,
which were born unto him in the land of Canaan. And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and
his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts,
and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan, and went into the country
from the face of his brother Jacob. For their riches were more than that they might dwell
together, and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle.
Thus Esau dwelt in Mount Seir. Esau is Edom. And these are the generations of Esau, the
father of the Edomites in Mount Seir. These are the names of Esau's sons. Eliphaz, the
son of Edah, the wife of Esau, rule, the son of Bashamath, the wife of Esau. And the sons
of Eliphaz were Timon, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz. And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz,
Esau's son, and she bore to Eliphaz Amalek. These were the sons of Edah, Esau's wife.
And these were the sons of Rul, Nahath, and Zirah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the
sons of Bashamath, Esau's wife. And these were the sons of Ahalibamah, the daughter
of Ana, the daughter of Zibian, Esau's wife. And she bore to Esau, Jeash, and Jalem, and
Korah. These were the dukes of the sons of Esau, the sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn son
of Esau, duke Timon, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz, duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke
Amalek. These are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom. These were the sons of
Edah. And these were the sons of Rul, Esau's son, duke Nahath, duke Zirah, duke Shammah,
duke Mizzah. These were the dukes that came of Rul in the land of Edom. These were the
sons of Bashamath, Esau's wife. And these were the sons of Ahalibamah, Esau's wife,
duke Jeash, duke Jalem, duke Korah. These were the dukes that came of Ahalibamah, the
sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes.
These are the sons of Seir, the Horite, who inhabited the land, Lotan and Shobol and Zibian
and Einah and Daishan and Ezer and Daishan. These are the dukes of the Horites, the children
of Seir in the land of Edom. And the children of Lotan were Horai and Hemam, and Lotan's
sister was Timna. And the children of Shobol were these, Alvin and Manahath and Ebel, Shifo
and Onam. And these were the children of Zibian, both Aja and Einah. This was that Einah that
found the mules in the wilderness as he fed the asses of Zibian his father. And the children
of Einah were these, Daishan and Ahalibamah, the daughter of Einah. And these were the
children of Daishan, Hemdan and Eshban and Ithran and Kiran. The children of Ezer are
these, Bilhan and Zayavan and Akan. The children of Daishan are these, Uz and Aaron. These
are the dukes that come of the Horites, duke Lotan, duke Shobol, duke Zibian, duke Einah,
duke Daishan, duke Ezer, duke Daishan. These are the dukes that come of Horai, among their
dukes in the land of Seir. And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before
there reigned any king over the children of Israel. And Bela, the son of Beor, reigned
in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. And Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah,
of Basra, reigned in his stead. And Jobab died, and Husham, the land of Timani, reigned
in his stead. And Husham died, and Hadad, the son of Beedad, who smote Midian in the
field of Moab, reigned in his stead. And the name of his city was Avoth. And Hadad died,
and Samlah, of Masrika, reigned in his stead. And Samlah died, and Saul, of Rehoboth, by
the river, reigned in his stead. And Saul died, and Baal-Hanan, the son of Aqbor, reigned
in his stead. And Baal-Hanan, the son of Aqbor, died, and Hadar reigned in his stead. And
the name of his city was Peu, and his wife's name was Mehedabal, the daughter of Matred,
the daughter of Mizahab. And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau according
to their families after their places by their names. Duke Timnah, Duke Alva, Duke Jetheth,
Duke Aholibamah, Duke Elah, Duke Pinon, Duke Kienaz, Duke Timon, Duke Mibzar, Duke Magdiel,
Duke Irem. These be the dukes of Edom according to their habitations in the land of their
possession. He is Esau, the father of the Edomites.
LogosLibrary.org